# Trypanosoma_cruzi-host-microbiome
# Microbiome alterations driven by Trypanosoma cruzi infection in two disjunctive mouse models

Alterations caused by Trypanosoma cruzi in the gut microbiome composition may play a key role in the host-parasite interactions and may be involved in a decrease of bacterial taxa and metabolic pathways that could be related to changes in physiology and immune responses against the parasite, promoting the establishment and progression of the infection. Therefore, we implemented a murine model with two mouse strains, BALBc and BL6, to evaluate the impact of Trypanosoma cruzi (Tulahuen strain) infection on the gut microbiome using shotgun metagenomics.

# Bioinformatics Analysis
## Sequence processing, taxonomic assignment, and functional profiling 
From the raw reads, a quality assessment was performed by FastQC (25). Quality and adapter trimming was then performed by Trimmomatic (26) using the parameters ILLUMINACLIP: TruSeq3-PE.fa:2:30:10:2:keepBothReads MINLEN:150 AVGQUAL:20 TRAILING:20. Mapping to the Mus musculus genome (GRCm39) was performed using the Bowtie2 tool (27) to remove reads corresponding to the host.

From the clean reads, the Centrifuge tool was used for taxonomic assignment (28). The obtained outputs were transformed to Kraken-Report format with the Centrifuge-kreport function for the corresponding analysis and visualization by Pavian (29). Additionally, a beta diversity analysis was performed by non-parametric multidimensional scaling (NMDS) to compare the microbiota composition between controls and infected.
Simultaneously, Humann3 (HMP Unified Metabolic Analysis Network) (30) was used for functional profiling including the identification of changes in gene abundance and metabolic pathways. Since this tool receives only one fastq file as input, forward and reverse reads from each sample were concatenated to generate such a file. To facilitate comparisons between samples with different sequencing depths, it is important to normalize RPK values to relative abundance values or "copies per million" (CPM) units, so the humann_renorm_tablescript function was used. The default "units" of the HUMAnN microbial function are the UniRef gene families that were used to calculate reaction and pathway abundances. From the abundance of gene families, reconstruction of the abundance of other functional categories was performed using the humann_regroup_tablescript function. Gene family abundance values normalized by CPM to the MetaCyc reaction abundances (RXN), which are included with the default Humann3 facility, were regrouped. To generate readable output, the humann_rename_table function was used, and then the sample outputs were joined with the humann_join_tables function. Finally, a stratified table was obtained with humann_split_stratified_table. For the evaluation of the results obtained by Humann3, the R package, Maaslin (31), was used to determine the association between measurement times, condition (infected-uninfected,) and functional characteristics of the microbiome using a multivariate mixed-effects model. Heatmap was created with MicrobioSee using Ward´s linkage method for hierarchical cluster analysis.
MAGs reconstruction and Pangenome and functional analysis

From the clean reads, the assembly process was performed using Spades, with the --meta parameter (32), and Megahit (33). MetaQuast was used to determine the quality statistics of these assemblies and to select the best contigs (34). A bowtie2 mapping of the readings for each sample against the corresponding assemblage was performed to estimate the coverage and thus proceed to binning. From the best quality contigs, the binning process was performed with MetaBat, Maxbin and Concoct tools, followed by a refinement with DASTool and the quality of these final bins was evaluated with CheckM (35–38). Taxonomic assignment of these good quality bins was performed with GTDB-Tk (39). Bins with completeness >90% and contamination <5% and that were taxonomically assigned were treated as assembled genomes from metagenomes (MAGs) for further analysis. MAGs were obtained for Akkermansia muciniphila, Lactobacillus johnsonii, Alistipes finelgoldii, Staphylococcus xylosus, Faecalibaculum rodentium and Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. Proksee was implemented for visual genome reconstruction. In this case a BLAST alignment was performed with the default parameters with the reference genome corresponding to each of the previously defined species, which were downloaded from NCBI: NZ_AP021898. 1 Akkermansia muciniphila, NZ_CP062068.1 Lactobacillus johnsonii, NZ_JADMWR010000010.1 Alistipes finegoldii, NZ_CP008724.1 Staphylococcus xylosus, NZ_CP011391.1 Faecalibaculum rodentium and NZ_CP040530.1 Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. The .gff annotation files obtained by Prokka (40) for each case were also included in this reconstruction, where the GC percentage and the GC Skew with the default parameters were also determined. 
The .gff files obtained from the annotation were used for the pangenome analysis with the Panaroo tool (41), considering an identity of 99% and their presence in the compared genomes also of 99% (--clean-mode strict -a core --aligner mafft --core_threshold 0.99). For this purpose, the complete and good quality genomes available in PATRIC were downloaded. Ninety-six genomes of Akkermansia muciniphila, 15 of Lactobacillus johnsonii, 18 of Alistipes finegoldii, 20 of Staphylococcus xylosus and 4 of Faecalibaculum rodentium were downloaded. The results were used for the generation of phylogenetic trees in ITol (42) and for the graphical representation of the core genome by using Phandango (43). 
In addition to the functional annotation with NCBI COGs, the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) was also used to identify the metabolic capacities present in MAGs (44,45). For this purpose, KofamKOALA was used to assign K numbers to the sequence data by HMMER/HMMSEARCH against KOfam (a customized HMM database of KEGG Orthologs (KOs)). The outputs were used for visual reconstructions of metabolic pathways using KEGG Mapper. Complementarily, an evaluation was performed for annotation through ortholog assignment by means of EggNOG-mapper (46). The results obtained here were used for clustering according to Clusters of Orthologous Groups of proteins (COGs) (47).

 
